[TASK] Mention simpler way of adding preview for custom CTypes (#2807)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-CoreApi: Documentation/ApiOverview/ContentElements/CustomBackendPreview.rst

A preview renderer is used to facilitate (record) previews in TYPO3. This
class is responsible for generating the preview and the wrapping.

The default preview renderer is :php:`\TYPO3\CMS\Backend\Preview\StandardContentPreviewRenderer`
and handles the Core's built-in content types (field :sql:`CType` in table :sql:`tt_content`).

Extend the default preview renderer
===================================

There are two ways to provide previews for your custom content types:

> via page :ref:`TSconfig <ConfigureCE-Preview>` or :ref:`event listener <ConfigureCE-Preview-EventListener>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
via page :ref:`TSconfig <ConfigureCE-Preview-PageTSconfig>` or :ref:`event listener <ConfigureCE-Preview-EventListener>`.
```

..  _ConfigureCE-Preview-PageTSconfig:

Page TSconfig
----------------

> This is the "integrator" way, no PHP coding required. Just some PageTS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the "integrator" way, no PHP coding is required. Just some page TSconfig
```

and a Fluid template.

..  code-block:: typoscript
    :caption: EXT:my_extension/Configuration/page.tsconfig

    mod.web_layout {
      tt_content {
        preview {
          # Your CType
          example_ctype = EXT:my_extension/Resources/Private/Templates/Preview/ExampleCType.html
        }
      }
    }

> For more details see :ref:`TSconfig Reference <t3tsconfig:pageweblayoutpreview>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details see the :ref:`TSconfig Reference <t3tsconfig:pageweblayoutpreview>`.
```

..  _ConfigureCE-Preview-EventListener:

Event listener
--------------

> This requires at least some PHP coding but allows more flexibility in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This requires at least some PHP coding, but allows more flexibility in
```

> regards to accessing and processing the content elements properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accessing and processing the content elements properties.
```

..  versionadded:: 12.0
    Since version 12.0 this technique replaces the former hook
    :php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['SC_OPTIONS']['cms/layout/class.tx_cms_layout.php']['tt_content_drawItem']`

> The event :ref:`PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent` is being dispatched by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event :php:`PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent` is being dispatched by the
```

:php:`StandardContentPreviewRenderer`. You can listen to it with your own
event listener.

> Have a look at this :ref:`showcase implementation <_PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have a look at this :ref:`showcase implementation <PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent>`.
```

A preview renderer is used to facilitate (record) previews in TYPO3. This
class is responsible for generating the preview and the wrapping.

> The default PreviewRenderer is :php:`StandardContentPreviewRenderer` and handles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default preview renderer is :php:`StandardContentPreviewRenderer` and handles
```

> the core's built-in CTypes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Core's built-in content types (field :sql:`CType` in table :sql:`tt_content`).
```

Reviewer 2: Here is a list of special words and how we write and capitalize them in the docs: https://docs.typo3.org/m/typo3/docs-how-to-document/main/en-us/GeneralConventions/Glossary.html "The Core" is treated as propper noun and always written in Captitals unless we talk about "the core of the poodle"

Extend the default PreviewRenderer
==================================

> There's two ways of how you can provide previews for your own custom CTypes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways of how to provide previews for your own custom content types:
```

> via PageTS or event listener.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
via page TSconfig or event listener.
```

Reviewer 2: See https://docs.typo3.org/m/typo3/docs-how-to-document/main/en-us/GeneralConventions/Glossary.html

> PageTS
> ------
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
page TSconfig
----------------

```

..  code-block:: typoscript

>     mod.web_layout.tt_content.preview.<CType> = EXT:my_extension/Resources/Private/Templates/Preview/ExampleCType.html

Reviewer 2: Long lines of code cause horizontal scrolling in the frontend. I would suggest to use nesting at some level instead

For more details see :ref:`TSconfig Reference <t3tsconfig:pageweblayoutpreview>`

Event listener
--------------

..  versionadded:: 12.0
    Since version 12.0 this this technique replaces the former hook
    :php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['SC_OPTIONS']['cms/layout/class.tx_cms_layout.php']['tt_content_drawItem']`

The event :php:`PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent` is being dispatched by the
:php:`StandardContentPreviewRenderer`. You can listen to it with your own
event listener.

..  code-block:: yaml
    :caption: EXT:my_extension/Configuration/Services.yaml

    services:

>       Vendor\MyExtension\EventListener\ExampleCType:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      MyVendor\MyExtension\EventListener\ExampleCType:
```

We always try to use "MyVendor" to prevent confusion with the directory "vendor" for newbies.

        tags:
          - name: event.listener
            method: handleEvent
            identifier: 'myListener'
            event: TYPO3\CMS\Backend\View\Event\PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent

..  code-block:: php
    :caption: EXT:my_extension/Classes/EventListener/ExampleCType.php

    namespace Vendor\MyExtension\EventListener;
    use TYPO3\CMS\Backend\View\Event\PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent;

>     class ExampleCType

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    final class ExampleCType
```
Event Listeners should never be extended so it is good practice to make them final

A preview renderer is used to facilitate (record) previews in TYPO3. This
class is responsible for generating the preview and the wrapping.

The default preview renderer is :php:`StandardContentPreviewRenderer` and handles
the Core's built-in content types (field :sql:`CType` in table :sql:`tt_content`).

Extend the default PreviewRenderer
==================================

There are two ways of how to provide previews for your own custom content types:
via page TSconfig or event listener.

> page TSconfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Page TSconfig
```

Start of the heading, capital P.

Additionally, what is the advantage using this variant? As a reader I want to have a quick overview what's best to use in my concrete situation.

----------------

> ..  code-block:: typoscript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
..  code-block:: typoscript
    :caption: EXT:my_extension/Configuration/page.tsconfig
```

    mod.web_layout {
      tt_content {
        preview {
          # Your CType
          example_ctype = EXT:my_extension/Resources/Private/Templates/Preview/ExampleCType.html
        }
      }
    }

For more details see :ref:`TSconfig Reference <t3tsconfig:pageweblayoutpreview>`.

> Event listener

Author: @brotkrueml, I've added a paragraph to each of the two ways that explains when you should use it.

--------------

..  versionadded:: 12.0
    Since version 12.0 this technique replaces the former hook
    :php:`$GLOBALS['TYPO3_CONF_VARS']['SC_OPTIONS']['cms/layout/class.tx_cms_layout.php']['tt_content_drawItem']`

> The event :php:`PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent` is being dispatched by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event :ref:`PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent` is being dispatched by the
```

So the event is linked to the appropriate page:
https://docs.typo3.org/m/typo3/reference-coreapi/main/en-us/ApiOverview/Events/Events/Backend/PageContentPreviewRenderingEvent.html

I also want to see the example on the event page. If someone searches "Big G" for the event, possibilities are high, they are getting the event page as first result. You can then omit the example here. I suggest to add the example in a separate PR.

For an example, have a look into this redirect event:
https://docs.typo3.org/m/typo3/reference-coreapi/main/en-us/ApiOverview/Events/Events/Redirects/RedirectWasHitEvent.html
The snippets are embedded from external files, so we can check the syntax and migrate PHP code via Rector to a newer PHP version when necessary.

Reviewer: I created a PR for the event example: #2814 . So best way would be to reference this event and remove the example from here. What do you think?

Author: @brotkrueml, sure, like that idea! But isn't that code example of yours missing `services:` and most importantly the `event` property?

Reviewer: The event property is not necessary since v11. Reflection is doing the job. And we leave out all the introductionary things in Services.yaml in event overview, just the relevant part.

Author: @brotkrueml, done. Please have a look.
